Ingredients

 For the pesto sauce

100 g fresh basil leaves (if you can find it, prefer the one from Northern Italy - other kinds have an undesired minty flavor)
50 g Parmigiano (or a mix of Parmigiano & Pecorino cheese)
25 g pine nuts (possibly, from the Mediterranean)
½ cup extra-virgin olive oil (ideally, the delicate one from Liguria, pesto's homeland)
1 teaspoon of coarse salt
1 clove of garlic (optional)
 For the potato and green beans pasta

1 russet potato (about 250 g in weight)
150 g of green beans
250 g of pasta (trofie is the most traditional, linguine or spaghetti are also common).
Preparation

 For the pesto sauce

Gently wash the basil under cold running water and then lay it on a towel and let it dry completely (fig. 1). Do not bend or crush the leaves.
Meanwhile, put the blender's bowl and blade in the freezer for at least 10 minutes (fig. 2a).
Pour all of the oil in the blender, then add the crushed garlic (if using it) and the basil. Give it a few pulses until the leaves are roughly chopped up (fig. 2b).

Add the cheese, grated or cut in small bits, and the salt (fig. 2c). Give it a few more spins.
Add the whole pine nuts (fig. 2d).

Give a few last spins and extract from the blender (fig. 3).

 For the potato and green beans pasta

Dice the potato and cut the green beans in bite-size chunks (fig. 4).

Drop the green beans in a large pot of salted boiling water, cook for 10 minutes (fig. 5a).
Dried pasta generally takes the same cooking time as the diced potatoes (about 10 minutes). If using dried pasta, add it along with the potato (fig. 5b) and cook for the time indicated on the box. If using fresh pasta, start by adding the potatoes, boil for 7-8 minutes, then add the pasta and cook for another 2 or 3.

Put a good tablespoon of pesto in each plate and dilute it with some of the pasta cooking water (fig. 5c).
When the pasta and vegetables is ready, quickly drain it, pour it on top of the pesto (fig. 5d) and stir gently. Serve immediately.

Notes

If the sauce is not used immediately, it can be preserved in the fridge for up to two to three days. Store it in a tall and narrow container (e.g.: a glass) and top it up with an extra tablespoon of olive oil. Before using it, leave the sauce out of the fridge an hour - don't warm it up, or you'll cause the cheese to lump together and separate from the oil. Pesto can also be frozen, in that case some recommend not to add the cheese until the sauce is thawed.
